# Sigmorph-2021-task2

This project belongs to the submission of the CU-UBC team for the SIGMORPHON 2021 Shared Task 2: Unsupervised morphological paradigm clustering. Our system generates paradigms using morphological transformation rules which are discovered from raw data. We experiment with two methods for discovering rules. Our first approach generates prefix and suffix transformations between similar strings. Secondly, we experiment with more general rules which can apply transformations inside the input strings in addition to prefix and suffix transformations. 

## Removing big paradigms
Preliminary experiments showed that large baseline paradigms tended to generate many incorrect rules which did not represent genuine morphological transformations. We, therefore, limited rule-discovery to paradigms spanning maximally 20 forms. Under the  `src` directory, `remove_big_paradigms.py` can be used to filtering large paradigms. 

## Predictions
Our first approach to rule-discovery is based on identifying a contiguous word stem shared by both forms. The stem is defined as the longest common substring of the forms. We split both forms into a prefix, stem and suffix. The morphological transformation is then defined as a joint substitution of a prefix and suffix. 

Codes and generated files of Prefix and Suffix rules systems and Discontinuous rules systems are under the directory `src`: `prefix-suffix-rules.py` can be used to generate results based on the rule-based approach. 

##  Filtering Paradigms
According to our preliminary experiments, many large paradigms generated by transformation rules contained word forms which were morphologically unrelated to the other forms in the paradigm. To counteract this, we experimented with three strategies for filtering out individual extraneous forms from generated paradigms: the degree test, the rule-frequency test and the embedding similarity test. Forms which fail all of our three tests are removed from the paradigm.

Degree test: We calculate the number of transformation rules mapping w → w0. We increment the degree if there is at least one edge between words w and w0 in the paradigm (the number of distinct rules mapping form w to w0 is irrelevant here as long as there is at least one). If the degree of a word is less than a third of the paradigm size, the word fails the degree test.

Rule-Frequency test: We examine the cumulative frequency of all rules applying to the form in our paradigm. If this frequency is lower than the median cumulative frequency in the paradigm, the form fails the rule-frequency test.

Embedding-similarity test: If a word fails to pass the degree and the rule frequency tests, we will further measure the semantic similarity of the given form with other forms in the paradigm.

Filtering codes can be found in the directory `src`: `filtering_paradigms.py`.

